#### 1.1 Features of Haskell
- **Concise programs**: Due to the high-level nature of the functional style, programs written in Haskell are often much more concise than programs written in other languages. Moreover the syntax of Haskell has been designed with concise programs in mind, in particular by having few keywords, and by allowing indentation to be used to indicate the structure of programs. Haskell programs are often between two and ten times shorter than programs written in other languages.
- **Powerful type system**: Most modern programming languages include some form of type system to detect incompatibility errors, such as erroneously attempting to add a number to a character. Haskell has a type system that usually requires little type information from the programmer, but allows a large class of incompatibility errors in programs to be automatically detected prior to their execution, using sophisticated process called **type inference**. The Haskell type system is also more powerful than most languages, supporting very general forms of polymorphism and overloading, and providing a wide range of special purpose features concerning types.
- **List comprehensions**: One of the most common ways to structure and manipulate data in computing is using lists of values. To this end, Haskell provides lists as a basic concept in the language, together with a simple but powerful comprehension notation that constructs new lists by selecting and filtering elements from one or more existing lists. Using the comprehension notation allows many common functions on lists to be defined in a clear and concise manner, without the need for explicit recursion.
- **Higher-order functions**: Haskell is a *higher-order* functional language, which means that functions can freely take functions as arguments and produce functions as results. Higher-order functions can be used to define *domain-specific languages* within Haskell itself, such as for list processing, interactive programming, and parsing.
- **Effectful functions**: Many programs require some effects other than pure functions to work, such as reading inputs from the keyboard, writing an output to the screen, while the program is running. Haskell provides a uniform framework for programming with effects, without compromising the purity of functions, based upon the use of **monads** and **applicatives**.
- **Generic functions**: Haskell, in contrast to other languages, provides a range of library functions that can be used with any type that is functorial, applicative, monadic, foldable, or traversable, and moreover, allows new structures and generic functions over them to be defined.
- **Lazy evaluation**: Haskell programs are executed using a technique called *lazy evaluation*, which is based upon the idea that no computation should be performed until its result is actually required. As well as avoiding unnecessary computation, lazy evaluation ensures that programs terminate whenever possible, encourages programming in a modular style using intermediate data structures, and even allows programming with **infinite structures.**
- **Equational reasoning**: